Digital Geography Specality Group Meeting Minutes
August 28th 2018 

Skype Call 
Members Present 
Everyone 


AAG 2019 April 3-7 in D.C. 
Deadlines- 
Papers Oct. 25th 
Sessions Nov 8th 

Emma is no longer able to be a student member- she started a position ar UWT!! Transitions... 
Emma and Will will do ther bulk of the work for the panel then we will have an election for a few student rep. 

Transition for the chair position, at or around the AAG. 
the Chair is vice chair for a year then chair. 

When does Matt step down... stay until May of 2020? Will become chair in Jan then stay in position until May/June 2020
Transition to the new board goes with the academic year, in June... 
There needs to be a report to be submitted in July, buedget etc. 

Student rep will get elected early then serve the full year. 

We agreed to give a couple awards 

Panel organized by student members.. 

Awards- 
$100 for undergrad project/ non student 
2 $250 research proposal awards for grad students

Post in Early Jan. Feb 15th deadline 
Awards Committee- 
outside folks like Taylor Shelton on the awards committee. 
Jim and Wen can also serve on the awards com. 

Mention the awards when we post info about the sessions, give people a heads up when we put out our earlier list of sessions 
Get in on people's radar 


Keynote Panel- student members organized it with help from the chair. 
idea was to have a panel, student members would gain experince working with more faculty and have a biggert conversation 
Emma Matt and Will are responsible 

Panel- Logistics- we can request a day or the week, but it doesnt mean you will get it. 

We also can pick the day of your board meeting 

Panel from last year- gard students had a hard time cutting off senior faculty that took over the time. moderation of the panel should be done by someone more senior with support from the grad students. 

Themes? in DC politics and race

Will, Matt, and Emma will chat about panel over email 

Livestream the panel? look into it. 
Heather did live tweet the panel last year 

low tech would be getting questions from twitter 

Getting someone on the panel who would not otherwise be at the conference 
AAG might help with travel costs 
Maybe wecan find someone interesting in DC 

We have 190 members as of Aug. 
annoucement, that we are going to be doing stuff later.. a lot of people sign up for AAg in the Fall... we need to be present. 
Keep tweeting... 
Twitter handle- @DigitalGeogSG 

What else...for AAG 
Email list thru AAG to put calls out.. 
Tweet
get more calls ciruclating
Call for calls... 

AAG ideas 
Book session/launch 
Approach- Rob Kitchen and James Ash.. about doing something around the new digital geog. book.. its an edited vol. 
Sage will put up a little money and the we can put up money and have a reception for the book. 
Book launch... author meets critics.. or a session or authors meets editors

Jim will email Rob about that.. 

Session or a Theme
Data heavy... US Census and setting in DC 
trandgresive theme or critical theme. historically and today data are collected and stored and we have new issues and here we are in DC 

Jim worked on voting data rights initative.. we can do something around electoral districting. Jim can help
Heather also can get in touch with Levi Wolf on electoral maps and gerrymandering 

Reception kind of thing... after the panel... tied to the new digital geog. book 

Topics of formats we want to do? non standard paper sessions... 
Alt format... what if we sponsored a breakfast before the 1st session
We can provide bfast before an all day session for dig geog 
very practical for students... 
Digital Donuts... and Cyber Coffee :) (Will)
Social setting and come and go set it up as a panel... do we have control over the timing? should be a problem.. 
people can sign up for panel slots so you know they will be in the room

Can we book a room for these kind of things? yes, we can have a room... 
Lunch lottery... like NACIS sign up to go to lunch with someone famousish and meetup in that room. (Heather) reservations at pre picked places... people sign up and have different food options with in a sort walk. 

Pre conference?? no critical GIS conf (will be at NACIS 2019) 
two day something happening... 
Digital crticial GIS pre AAG workshop.. 
Taylor and Dillon... 







